How-to: multiple plugin auth (#472)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/_how-tos/allow-multiple-authentication.md

  - consumer

tags:
  - authentication

tldr:
  q: How do I allow different clients to access an upstream service with different authentication types, and forbid access to any unauthenticated clients?

>   a: |
>     You can use multiple authentication plugins with an anonymous Consumer to give clients multiple options for authentication. 
>     The anonymous Consumer acts as a fallback to catch all other unauthorized requests.
> 
>     For example, you can configure Key Auth and Basic Auth, apply them to specific Consumers, and set `anonymous` in those plugins to catch access attempts from anyone else.
>     Then, apply the Request Termination plugin to requests made with the anonymous Consumer to terminate the requests and send back a specific message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  a: |
    Configure multiple authentication plugins, like [Key Auth](/plugins/key-auth/) and [Basic Auth](/plugins/basic-auth/), and apply them to specific [Consumers](/gateway/entities/consumer/). Set `config.anonymous` in those plugins to the ID of the anonymous Consumer to catch access attempts from anyone else.
    Then, apply the [Request Termination](/plugins/request-termination/) plugin to requests made with the anonymous Consumer to terminate the requests and send back a specific message.
```
Moving the "intro" content to the steps and added links so someone could just look at the TLDR and know how to configure this without reading the steps.

      icon_url: /assets/icons/gateway.svg
---

## 1. Create an ID

> Create a UUID:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use multiple authentication plugins with an anonymous Consumer to give clients multiple options for authentication. The anonymous Consumer acts as a fallback to catch all other unauthorized requests.

First, you must create a UUID for the anonymous Consumer. This is used when you configure the authentication plugins.
```
Added the "intro" content from the TLDR here. I also wanted to know why we needed a UUID, so I added that here as well, not sure if that's correct.

The `anonymous` Consumer doesn't correspond to any real user, and will only serve as a fallback:

{% entity_examples %}
entities:
  consumers:
    - username: anonymous
      id: ${anonymous_consumer}
    - username: Dana
    - username: Mahan
variables:
  anonymous_consumer:
    value: $ANONYMOUS_CONSUMER
{% endentity_examples %}

We're going to assign a different authentication type to each Consumer later.

## 3. Set up authentication

Add the Key Auth and Basic Auth plugins to the `example-service` Gateway Service, and set the `anonymous` fallback to the Consumer we created earlier:

{% entity_examples %}
entities:
  plugins:
    - name: key-auth
      service: example-service
      config:
        hide_credentials: true
        anonymous: ${anonymous_consumer}
    - name: basic-auth
      service: example-service
      config:
        hide_credentials: true
        anonymous: ${anonymous_consumer}
variables:
  anonymous_consumer:
    value: $ANONYMOUS_CONSUMER
{% endentity_examples %}

## 4. Test with anonymous Consumer

You now have authentication enabled on the Gateway Service, but the `anonymous` Consumer also allows requests from unauthenticated clients.

> Check without credentials:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following validation works because the anonymous Consumer currently allows this unauthenticated request:
```

Reviewer: I wanted a bit more info here about how the anonymous Consumer was allowing this to function.

{% validation request-check %}
url: '/anything'
status_code: 200
{% endvalidation %}

> Check with nonsense credentials:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following validation with fake credentials also works because the anonymous Consumer treats this as unauthenticated as well:
```
I added this because I wanted a bit more info here about how the anonymous Consumer was allowing this to function. I think this is correct.

{% validation request-check %}
url: '/anything?apikey=nonsense'
status_code: 200
{% endvalidation %}

In both cases, you should get a 200 response, as the `anonymous` Consumer is allowed.

## 5. Configure credentials

> Configure different credentials for the two named users: basic auth for `Dana`, and key auth for `Mahan`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, let's configure Consumers with different auth credentials and prevent unauthenticated access. Configure different credentials for the two named users: basic auth for `Dana`, and key auth for `Mahan`:
```

Reviewer: I wanted more of a lead in to why we were doing this next part.

{% entity_examples %}
entities:
  consumers:
    - username: Dana
      basicauth_credentials:
        - username: Dana
          password: dana
    - username: Mahan
      keyauth_credentials:
        - key: mahan
{% endentity_examples %}

## 6. Add Request Termination to the anonymous Consumer

The anonymous Consumer gets no credentials, as we don't want unauthenticated users accessing our Gateway Service.
Instead, you can configure the Request Termination plugin to handle anonymous Consumers and redirect their requests with a `401`:

{% entity_examples %}
entities:
  consumers:
    - username: anonymous
      plugins:
        - name: request-termination
          config:
            status_code: 401
            message: '"Error - Authentication required"'

> {% endentity_examples %}

Reviewer: Got the same `Error: building state: inserting consumer by username anonymous: entity already exists` error for this one.

## 7. Validate authentication

Let's check that authentication works.

Try to access the Gateway Service via the `/anything` Route using a nonsense API key:

{% validation request-check %}
url: '/anything?apikey=nonsense'
status_code: 401

> {% endvalidation %}

Reviewer: This gave me the same error as the other "nonsense" validation check, but the rest of the validation worked.
